Lazy Rabbit never did any work. He had not dug the fields for his wife to sow their vegetable crop. Finally, his wife chased him out of their house and would not let him back. Lazy Rabbit thought of a plan.

He found Big Elephant and started to tease him. “I’m so fast that you could never catch me,” he called out as he darted in between the elephant’s legs and round and round his feet. Big Elephant was very bad tempered by the time he finally caught Lazy Rabbit’s little white tail under his foot.

“Now, I’m going to stamp on you,” roared Big Elephant.

But Lazy Rabbit was thinking fast. “You have to lift your foot to stamp on me and then I will run away,” cried out the crafty rabbit. “We should have a competition to see who is the strongest. I will try to pull you into the sea. If I can’t do it then I will lie here nice and still and you can stamp on me all you like.”

Big Elephant thought he would easily win, so he let Lazy Rabbit tie a red rope around his middle. Lazy Rabbit took one end of the red rope and ran through the forest to his fields and tied the red rope to his plough. Then he got another rope, a blue one, and tied it to the other end of the plough and ran over his fields to the sea.

“Hey, Giant Whale,” he called out, “I’m so strong I bet I could pull you out of the sea.” Giant Whale was furious. He swam to the shore to teach Lazy Rabbit a lesson. He let Lazy Rabbit tie the other end of the blue rope around him and then he swam off as fast as he could.

Suddenly, to Giant Whale’s surprise, the blue rope pulled tight and no matter how hard he swam he could not pull Lazy Rabbit into the sea.

In the forest, Big Elephant was pulling on the red rope with all his might. He was amazed by how strong Lazy Rabbit was. All day and all night the whale and the elephant pulled and pulled. First the elephant pulled the red rope and the plough dug through the fields towards the forest. Then the whale pulled on the blue rope and the plough dug back through the fields towards the sea. As the whale and the elephant pulled backwards and forwards, the plough was pulled up and down the field, digging up the earth.

Finally, in the morning, Big Elephant and Giant Whale gave up. They were so embarrassed that each quietly untied his end of the rope and slunk away. They both hoped that no one had seen them being beaten by a rabbit.

Meanwhile, Lazy Rabbit went home and proudly showed his wife their fields that were all nicely dug up and ready for planting.