# IS IT BETTER TO BE CLEVER OR HARDWORKING?
*Two people give their responses to this question.*

It is obviously better to be hardworking than it is to be clever, and only “smart people” think otherwise.

We all know gifted students who believe that their cleverness is enough to ensure their success, but if you’re clever and lazy you are unlikely to succeed. It takes effort to turn any brilliant idea into something real. It is more rewarding to struggle, perhaps to fail, to keep struggling and finally to succeed, than always to succeed without effort. You learn more that way, and you value your work.

I would rather be hardworking than clever, because clever people are under constant pressure to perform. I prefer to impress my parents and others with persistence than disappoint them despite my supposed brilliance.

*Fouad*

I prefer to be clever rather than hardworking. Clever people can think of great ideas that contribute more to our society than hard work alone. This makes clever people much more exciting.

Many people feel they are entitled to a reward as long as they devote long hours to doing something, but clever people can be economical in their efforts, so they get more for less: a little bit of efficient thinking can save a lot of wasted hours.

I pity conscientious people. They always need their efforts to be noticed and confuse appearing busy with achievement.

Clever people know when their ideas are worthy, and, by virtue of being clever, ideas come to them easily. Clever people are also often able to identify problems caused by others, which is the first step towards solving them.

My parents tell me that being clever is my greatest strength. Sometimes that involves hard work and sometimes it doesn't. That's the clever way to do things.

*Alba*